[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Actually, let's let's
do group guided, if we can use words,
where should we start?
>> Speaker 2: A timeline.
>> Speaker 3: Opening dev tools.
>> Jon Kuperman: Opening dev tools,
I like that.
Yeah, we could do the timeline, I am
always torn between timeline and audit,
and I audit because it's easier.
My brain doesn't like working
my way into this mode.
It's all refreshed and
do on audit of frontendmasters.com.
Okay, so you've got eight scripts
coming down, some of these I don't
think you'll be able to combine is wistia-
>> Speaker 4: Wistia's our video host.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay, so that you're
probably you do what you have to do,
you might be able to make those script
tags a sync or deferred, maybe.
>> Speaker 4: Did you open
this in incognito, too?
>> Jon Kuperman: No.
>> Speaker 4: Because you
might be logged in.
>> Jon Kuperman: I'm not, I checked.
>> Speaker 4: Are you not, okay.
>> Jon Kuperman: So yeah,
eight plus the CSS and
plus the document means that
there's going to be more than some
stuff is going to be-
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
I'm surprised that we have five,
I thought we combined those checks.
>> Jon Kuperman: Soon we'll do not work
tab some G.'s of stuff again this is
misleading in the sense that these aren't
files that you own like mail munch and
we packs are not things that you
have control over G.'s it being so.
Browser caching, a lot of things don't
have expirations on them like your
pictures and things like that, so
I don't know what you like WordPress or
something like that you can do things.
>> Speaker 4: Just piece,
it's just served from a theme.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: It was like that but
with a source tag.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, but
like to say I like to be the total cash
could add some max ages, images to it or
something like that, if you wanted
to have browser caching turned on?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
I think we have W3 total cache.
>> Jon Kuperman: There's also with CMS is
you alway get this issue where you have
plug ins kind of fighting each other
sometimes, so a lot like WordPress.
I see this all the time where
every WordPress plugin has its own
JavaScript and CSS, right?
You get into this really tricky,
like we keep talking about
important it is to bundle them,
but a lot of times when you're in CMS
land, you don't really have that option.
So, like every plugin wants to look
it's way and function it's way.
It's like a lot of times each plugin you
add brings with it its own JavaScript and
CSS file, and then can't necessarily
be cached by other plugins.
So, it might just be something like that,
these are just things that happen or
whatever, like cookies.
I think that's probably fine.
>> Speaker 4: We were serving the static
assets from a CDN which was Kolas/sp,
>> Jon Kuperman: Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 4: But then it was like, to
keep this CDN with the newest version and
sometimes there would be like a day lag.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: I think it was before Amazon
allowed you to purge stuff.
Now you can just purge it, but that
process of deployment is just annoying.
>> Jon Kuperman: Totally man.
>> Speaker 4: I'm just making excuses.
>> Jon Kuperman: No hey,
man it's good the site looks fine.
I use it,
everybody here uses it it's a good.
You've got images that
don't have their sizes,
I can just help with the pre-renders and
stuff like that, not a huge deal.
CSS again like these are things that
you'll get, so there's three style blocks,
we can look into those
that are not in the head.
I'm assuming those come from plugins in
some way that are like adding them places.
>> Speaker 4: All right.
>> Jon Kuperman: I've used CSS pros but
again I mean whatever that happens and
it's probably one, so
there's another thing I forgot to mention.
So the unused CSS rules.
It's a problem in the sense that you
can have like a sync like
more mark ups showing up, but
it's also if you only have one C.S.S.
file then you have other pages right?
So it's like there could be rules
that are used on other pages just not
the page that you're on.
And I wouldn't recommend making a C.S.S.
file for each page or I mean that's
just a lot of hassle or whatever.
I think it's OK to send
your style that C.S.S.
Yeah we've got those things
order of styles and scripts.
These are basically like two two
sides of the same coin or it's saying
like C-S-S files for us to get the highest
priority but you have C-S-S files that
come after JavaScript files so how can I
make the C-S-S a higher priority than.
JavaScript.
So then we take a look
at a network refresh.
We can even take a look
at some screenshots.
Actually, I'll turn those back on and
refresh again.
So kind of see how
everything loads in here.
So this is another weird
caveat with a refresh,
is when you Hit Refresh
to start the recording.
It actually starts the recording
before the page refreshes.
So you'll always see like you not
always but often you'll see a frame or
two and then the white of the refresh
just to keep in mind that like it's
like this is when
the refresh has started but
it hasn't flashed off the content of
the page yet, and then it goes white.
Stays white.
And then at about one second,
I get stuff in.
And this is pretty good in the sense
that I've got stuff to read and
I have a good idea.
I mean, we've got an image in there,
an enroll button comes in right away.
>> Speaker 4: And
the Frontend Masters logo is inlined SVG.
>> Jon Kuperman: Nice.
>> Speaker 4: So that's like
>> Jon Kuperman: Pretty fast
that's good stuff.
Again like a lot of pages that audit
you know if the logo and the image
were the only thing showing up before all
this got in that would be problematic.
Cut it's good you can read right away
you can click all the important buttons.
You get like that on style content,
I'm not sure where that's coming from but
it's like all.
>> Speaker 4: It's Web Fonts.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: That's where
were using Web Fonts for this.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah I don't know.
So the load looks pretty good to me,
there's some like paints
that are happening again.
But everything above
the fold is good there.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah the paints
that are happening again,
I think is because the video.
Like I basically hook it to unload,
>> Jon Kuperman: Right.
>> Speaker 4: and then I say okay
now dump in more DS scripts,
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
yeah
>> Speaker 4: for
the sample video or whatever.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah totally.
And I think that's great especially cuz
the simple video is below the fold.
>> Speaker 4: Right, so I just wait untill
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
and that's really no hard and
fast rules, like stuff that seems like
bad practices can actually make for
a way better experience because what you,
people need to see they're,
what they can see right away.
>> Speaker 4: Cuz I got the like full
DOM unload on ready or whatever.
From down in like seven or nine seconds
down to one and a half or two or
whatever it was.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, it was really good.
>> Speaker 4: By just making sure that
[INAUDIBLE] with you doesn't block and
other stuff doesn't block.
>> Jon Kuperman: And
that's always really useful.
People get into the problem
of making everything.
>> Speaker 4: All of your trade offs that
you just mentioned I wasn't surprised by.
>> Jon Kuperman: And
then this seems pretty normal too,
there's a couple things like over here.
Again more A.P.I. stuff.
I mean you see this is just a lot when
you've got like You have your I frame or
you have your script source and
it hit it eight block.
So it gets in there right away but
then it has like all of its
bootstrapping to do right.
So it's like YouTube You have your
little I frame that's all you put in for
the YouTube but
as soon as that gets parse it goes out and
it's like give me some huge JavaScript
a bunch of images and a bunch of do C.S.
and they you know so it drags on.
So you see this kind of pattern area of
like your initial page load this waterfall
And then you have a little bit of spotting
is that it's like a bunch of new stuff and
you know I mean it keeps kind
of that this way of going.
>> Speaker 4: I hate segment
because it's like it's nice for
our marketers because they can just
like inject Mail munch or whatever and
like an accident the marketers can inject
Remarketing scripts and stuff like that.
Analytics mix kinda.
All the stuff, right?
>> Jon Kuperman: So I think the lesson
here, and this is almost always true is,
it's probably not gonna be like,
my JavaScript functions are too slow.
It's almost always gonna be like,
that ad platform or
that analytics company that we have
to use or I did the intelligence for
ads on Twitter that was one of
my big fights was always the ad
team wants to know everything and get all
this data and I'm Okay you can have it,
but you can have it later you're
not going to get it right away.
So I think it's like this is really common
I mean it's again it's just the embeds or
it's like they provide a really
rich user experience but
they provide it at a cost, and.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, segments,
it's easy to just click a switch and
drop in some code-
>> Jon Kuperman: [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 4: It just loads
200 kilobytes of JavaScript.
Anyways.
>> Speaker 5: Sorry if you've covered
this but could you just remind me
what the vertical blue and red bars.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah
those are the two events.
Dom content loaded and then on load.
So it's like showing you When those fire,
I don't think I did cover that showing
you when those fire and that so
anything you do in JavaScript like on Dom
content loaded will happen at that point.
>> Speaker 4: I also think
that we're using VWO
which I think is why we're getting so
much distance between the blue and red
>> Jon Kuperman: OK.
>> Speaker 4: Because VWO the marketing
guys will take a piece of,
marketing guys with you know
piece of the home page and
swap out content and then that
will affect how many users click,
and how many potential customers
click to the next Thing or
whatever so there always
measuring conversion rates and
messing with context and titles and-
>> Jon Kuperman: So here's
an interesting one as far as color goes I
know I said on productions site you'll see
a lot more color variation, but we're
actually not seeing that much more here.
But we're seeing one interesting one,
I don't see a lot of purple So
I could talk about before this script
is actually coming down the pipeline
really fast but we're stalled out waiting
on the S-S-L handshake to finish.
And so it's like this is what is
a pipe dream that wisteria dot com So
it's like it's getting in
the queue really quickly
the actual request sent after the S-S-L
handshake is finished having really fast.
Time to first bite looks good but
look at we're spending like you
know one hundred milliseconds.
I'm waiting for the SSL handshakes that's
you know that's like their sides every
issue but interesting not just green and
blue and grey everywhere.
Yeah I don't there's a pretty good and
then we could do a timeline out as
well as well go Whole enchilada.
>> Speaker 4: Has anybody tried VWO or
used it for AV testing?
>> Speaker 6: I have.
It's a double edged sword.
>> Speaker 4: It's a double edged sword,
yeah.
It makes everything load slower,
but at the same time you can test.
>> Speaker 7: I wanna do the AV test
to see how many of my potential buyers
drop off before they've actually
loaded their experiment.
>> Jon Kuperman: Looks like we've
got some memory leak in here.
>> Speaker 4: That's
actually get a good AV test.
One without VWO and one with.
>> Jon Kuperman: This isn't
the jigsaw that we've seen before but
the JS Heap is just getting bigger and
bigger and bigger.
So one thing I'd check actually what I'd
like to do is see if it's just like Bigger
until the page loads in the maybe it stops
getting bigger or whether it keeps going.
So instead of recording it on
a refreshed I'm going to record it.
Now that it's just sitting here and
give it a couple seconds see if
memory still leaking because you know
as an absolute strapped it's not uncommon
to see the memory go up what you want to
know is like does it finally settle at
some point or does it just keep going.
So stop that.
>> Speaker 8: It settles like three
seconds, and drops back down.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool.
Okay, so
yeah there's like, yeah you're right.
So at a certain point there's
like a huge GC happens,
right and
it clears all that JavaScript tip.
But it does appear to start
building back up again
I would again,
this is like choose your battles, right?
The bootstrapping is fine,
it's whatever your app has to do.
It drops back down, and then it starts
crawling, but it is garbage collecting.
But you can see that it is
jigsawing a little bit.
So it's jigsawing a little bit, but
it's Going very slowly over time so
I don't know I might wanna, I would
look into this probably a little bit but
it's low heap usage and it's slow growth.
So it's not as like the examples
I had were like these ridiculous
jigsaws you know.
It was kind of interesting.
Let's hide the memory,
hide the screenshots.
I'll do a refresh again,
just to get that initial paint load and
all that kind of stuff.
>> Speaker 4: It's like someone
digging through your dirty laundry.
Why is this one so dirty?
>> Jon Kuperman: So we do see a good
amount of repaints, again I would imagine,
yeah this is like exactly what we just
talked about like we see a sum paid junk
It's when segments loading
Google Ads Facebook Google Analytics
intercom you know it's like all
this stuff is coming in and
it's really kind of whenever you have
any like third party thing right.
Like I said you have one I frame or
one script.
That's on your page.
But as soon as that gets parsed,
right, the company sends all their little
minions over to start bootstrapping.
Then it's like, here's my style sheet and
here's a whole bunch of documents.
It's just how everything works.
So again, tradeoffs.
There's a bunch of really, really useful
stuff that I'm sure helps the business.
But you can see that it has a pretty
big impact on page performance.
Again-
>> Speaker 4: Yeah inner com is just
like so big but
it's like the best tool in the world.
It's amazing.
>> Jon Kuperman: I mean I think, that's
almost always is gonna be the case, right.
Like the most like feature rich,
user friendly,
awesome thing,
I mean that comes at a cost, right.
It's gonna be a lot of code.
So yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know again like Using the CPU
is that's what it's there for,
it's there to be used.
I might worry about the page jank except
for when we saw, I mean we can do another
here and just make sure that
it's final turn paint flashing.
And we don't see any problems here.
So if the page jank is happening but
it's happening down lower,
it's really not something that I
would worry about all that much.
We saw a green flash for For
a second when the model came up.
But this doesn't seem bad to me.
So if it's like, if the page is
loading fine which we saw and
there's a bunch of junkies
stuff going on down low.
Do you really need to worry about it?
I mean the only way somebody would
see it is if they hit the page and
scroll immediately,
they would see the video coming junky,
but I think it's less of a concern.
Just because it's out of the view port.
Cool, I don't know, it seems good.
I guess if it were me,
I would beg to cut some of
the bad stuff to see if we
could get any wins there and
then I'd investigate that memory leak but
>> Speaker 7: Many marketing is
so effective.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, I know,
you're going I'm just saying,
if it were me those are the things I would
do, does anybody want to take a look at
the other one
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
there's
>> Jon Kuperman: No yes I told questions.
>> Speaker 9: Is there
a way to get like a Y.
axis on this memory graph so we can see
how much memory it's actually taking on?
>> Jon Kuperman: So you can see how much
is taken up by hovering over the line.
So you can see like how many nodes or
how big the JS [INAUDIBLE] is in bytes.
But I don't think you
can change the UI but
you can you can see this is like,
whatever, 37,
33 million bytes and I'm bad at math, but
you can see you can see the numbers there.